IBA Website
Email
Pay Online
ERP
Contact Us
IBA - Institute of Business Administration
Programs
Programs on Offer
Program Announcement 2025-26
Apply Online
Admissions Schedule
Undergraduate / Graduate / Postgraduate Fall 2026
PGD Programs
Admission Policies & Details
Admission Policy Details
Admission Procedure
Rechecking Policy
Document Required
Candidates with Disability
Policy for Internal Transfers
Fee Structure
Undergraduate Admission Criteria for Fall 2024
Undergraduate Admission Criteria for Fall 2025
Results
Results
Results Archive
FAQs
Past Papers
Written Test for the Female Management Trainee Officer Position – OGDCL
Advertisement (15-03-2026) – Closing Date (06-04-2026)
Registration Form
Written Test for the Multiple Position(s) - Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Unit
Advertisement (15-03-2026) – (Closing date: 03-04-2026)
Registration Form
Written Test for the Multiple Position(s)- Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Node of the Works & Services Department, Government of Sindh
Advertisement
Registration Form
Admission Policy
Admission Policy Details
IBA takes pride that it has never compromised quality in its standards of student intake, classroom instruction and discipline, assessment and testing during the fifty nine years of its existence. The challenge has been to continue the emphasis on quality while promoting a culture of inquiry, inquisitiveness and innovative thinking. In our drive to reach ever higher, we consider it imperative to periodically review the admissions policy and align it with international best practices. The policy for admission in various programs / courses of study at the Institute of Business Administration may be stated as follows:
Salient Points
Admission will be offered to all those who qualify following a strict merit-based admission criteria irrespective of their race, religion, gender, ethnicity or socio-economic background. There are no reserved / quota seats for any category at IBA. No effort will be made to fill all available seats or lower the criteria if an insufficient number of candidates apply or an individual candidate fails to satisfy the above criteria.
The cut-off for individual programs in the Aptitude Test will be decided by the Admissions Committee using rigorous methods based on statistical analysis.
There will be one Aptitude Test for admission to both campuses of IBA. Candidates may choose their specializations after a minimum of 2 years of study at IBA for undergraduate and 1 year for graduate programs.
There is no distinction in the fee structure between the Main and City Campuses.
Conditions
The admission is based on candidate's ability to meet the following conditions:
Apply online and register for the Aptitude Test.
Pay the required fee for processing of his / her admission application, related activity and obtain admit card.
Qualify the Aptitude Test OR provide proof for exemption from the aptitude test by providing SAT / ACT / GMAT / GRE score transcript, whichever is applicable.
Meet the minimum academic eligibility requirement for the concerned program and provide mark sheet / transcript of the same.
Provide equivalence certificate in case of holders of degrees issued by non-Pakistani universities / boards.
Aptitude Test & Interviews
The aim of the Aptitude Test is to evaluate candidates for their quantitative and analytical capabilities, logical reasoning, communication skills, reading comprehension, lexical resource, grammatical range, and aptitude for the program.
The interviews are designed to bring out the qualities needed not only to succeed in the chosen program of study but also the potential of the students to contribute positively to the society when they graduate.
SAT Exemption Policy for BBA, BSAF, BSBA, BSCS, BSMT, BSECO, BSSS, BSEM, BSEDS Programs:
Important Note:
Direct admission or qualification for an interview based on SAT scores is not guaranteed. There is no minimum SAT score required for aptitude test exemption, and only the top SAT scorers in the SAT merit list will be granted direct admission or called for an interview.
While you may choose to skip the IBA's aptitude test if you're confident in your SAT performance, we strongly encourage all candidates to take the IBA test to improve their chances of admission. If you skip the IBA aptitude test and apply solely based on your SAT scores and do not qualify for direct admission or an interview as per merit list, you will be placed on the list of unsuccessful candidates. The SAT merit list will be compiled and announced along with the IBA aptitude test result.
Therefore, if you believe your SAT score is not among the top, we recommend appearing for the aptitude test as well.
Such students are also encouraged to apply for the first round of admissions.
BBA & BSBA program – ACT
- A Composite Score of 29 (out of 36)
- An 
 English / Writing Score of 25 (out of 36)
BSSS program – ACT
- A Composite Score of 28 (out of 36)
- An 
 English / Writing Score of 25 (out of 36)
BSAF, BSECO, BSCS, BSEM and BSEDS program – ACT
- A Composite Score of 28 (out of 36)
- Score 
 of English / Writing is not required for the 
 purposes of admission, however may preferably be 
 submitted for placement in English courses 
 subsequent to admission
Program wise requirements for Admission
More specific information about the requirements for admission to the individual programs is appended as under:
Undergraduate Programs
Applicants to the BBA, BS ACF & BSBA Program must have completed their:
Higher Secondary School Certificate with a minimum of 65% marks;
A' Levels with an average of 2Bs and 1C with a minimum total of 8 points in 3 principal subjects. A maximum of one D grade allowed. E/U grades are not accepted. No credit is applicable for any subsidiary, general, or advanced supplementary paper;
OR
American / Canadian High School Diploma with a minimum of 80% or an International Baccalaureate with at least 25 points out of 45. All foreign degree / certificate holders must provide an equivalency certificate from IBCC.
Applicants to the BS Programs (CS, Economics & Mathematics, Mathematics and Economics & Data Science) must have completed their:
Higher Secondary School Certificate (Pre-Engineering) with a minimum of 60% marks
OR
Higher Secondary School Certificate (General Group with Mathematics) with a minimum of 60% marks
A' Levels with an average of 1B and 2Cs with a minimum total of 7 points in 3 principal subjects (including Mathematics). A maximum of one D grade allowed. E/U grades are not accepted. Mathematics is mandatory requirement and should be in the range of accepted grades for admission in BS CS, BS MATH, BS EM and BS EDS. No credit is applicable for any subsidiary, general, or advanced supplementary paper;
OR
American / Canadian High School Diploma with a minimum of 80% or an International Baccalaureate with at least 24 points out of 45. All foreign degree / certificate holders must provide an equivalency certificate from IBCC.
Applicants to the BS Programs (Economics and Social Sciences & Liberal Arts) must have completed their:
Higher Secondary School Certificate with a minimum of 60% marks
OR
A' Levels with an average of 1B and 2Cs with a minimum total of 7 points in 3 principal subjects. A maximum of one D grade allowed. E/U grades are not accepted. No credit is applicable for any subsidiary, general, or advanced supplementary paper;
OR
American / Canadian High School Diploma with a minimum of 80% or an International Baccalaureate with at least 24 points out of 45. All foreign degree / certificate holders must provide an equivalency certificate from IBCC.
For average grading points system, please visit the following link:
https://admissions.iba.edu.pk/OfferedPrograms.php
Graduate Programs
Applicants to the MS Programs must have:
A minimum of 16 years of education (culminating in a master's degree or equivalent) out of which 4 years should have been spent in an HEC recognized university/degree awarding institute with 2.5 CGPA or 60% in the last degree (whichever is applicable). Candidates with work experience will be preferred.
Minimum 600 scores in GMAT / 160 in Quantitative & 150 in the Verbal section of GRE required for test exemption.
MBA and Executive MBA (EMBA)
For details regarding MBA and EMBA, please see respective program website:
MBA:
https://mba.iba.edu.pk/
EMBA:
https://emba.iba.edu.pk/
Applicants to the PhD Program must have:
MS / M.Phil. / Equivalent in relevant subject from HEC recognized local / foreign university.
A minimum 60% aggregate marks in the last degree; provided numerical scores of each subject are mentioned in the mark sheet.(percentage is only considered if CGPA is not available)
OR
A minimum of 3.0 CGPA on a scale of 4.00 in the last degree where applicable*; provided letter grades of each subject are mentioned in the mark sheet.
PhD candidates will also have to ful fill more specific requirements laid out by the respective departments.
*All other degree holders must provide an equivalency certificate from HEC (www.hec.gov.pk).
Post Graduate Diploma (PGD)
Supply Chain Management, Human Resource Management and Project Management
Applicants to the Post Graduate Diploma programs must have:
- 14 Years Education with 6 years' post-qualification work experience
- 16 Years Education with 3 years' post- qualification work experience
Healthcare Management
- Doctors with MBBS/BDS with 2 years' experience in hospital
- Nurse graduates with minimum 5 years' experience in hospital
- Other healthcare professionals with 16 years education and at least 2 years work experience in hospital
Course Credit Transfer Policy (External)
A candidate who has attended any of the top 100 universities derived from the international ranking compiled by Shanghai Jiao Tong University's Institute of Higher Education or by The Times Higher Education Supplement (THES) or Quacquarelli Symonds (QS). Course credits are also acceptable from Lahore University of Management Sciences, and the universities with which IBA will be signing (or has signed) MOUs. If a student wishes to get credit transfers from any university which does not fall under any category mentioned above she/he will have to take approval from the respective School.
The candidate must have been enrolled in degree programs at these universities.
The candidate should have passed all the stages of admission process and has been offered admission at IBA.
Eligible candidates may apply for transfer to any of the IBA degree programs with the following stipulations:
IBA reserves the right to accept or reject all or any such candidates.
Subject Interviews may also be conducted prior to admission if so desired by IBA.
A transfer committee within each school headed by the concerned program director shall determine the courses to be accepted for transfer of credits of such candidates.
Transfer of credits will be applicable to those courses with 'B' or above grades.
A minimum of 50% of total degree credits must be completed at IBA.
Courses transferred shall be indicated in the final transcript as being 'transfer credits'.
The grades of transfer credits from outside IBA will not be included in the calculation of the CGPA and positions / medals.
Courses completed at other recognized universities may be considered for credit transfer at IBA only upon thorough evaluation. In the case of core courses (including core courses for minors), the course must first be reviewed and recommended by the relevant subject expert and/or the Chairperson of the respective department. The course content must demonstrate a minimum of 70% alignment with the corresponding IBA course for eligibility. Upon satisfactory mapping and recommendation, the Program Director may endorse the request, which will then be subject to final approval by the Dean of the respective School.
Disclaimer:
Any candidate who provides false or incorrect information about work experience, grades, financial status of the family, (or any other required material), or submits any fake supporting documents will be permanently debarred from applying to IBA