IBA Website
Email
Pay Online
ERP
Contact Us
IBA - Institute of Business Administration
Programs
Programs on Offer
Program Announcement 2025-26
Apply Online
Admissions Schedule
Undergraduate / Graduate / Postgraduate Fall 2026
PGD Programs
Admission Policies & Details
Admission Policy Details
Admission Procedure
Rechecking Policy
Document Required
Candidates with Disability
Policy for Internal Transfers
Fee Structure
Undergraduate Admission Criteria for Fall 2024
Undergraduate Admission Criteria for Fall 2025
Results
Results
Results Archive
FAQs
Past Papers
Written Test for the Female Management Trainee Officer Position – OGDCL
Advertisement (15-03-2026) – Closing Date (06-04-2026)
Registration Form
Written Test for the Multiple Position(s) - Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Unit
Advertisement (15-03-2026) – (Closing date: 03-04-2026)
Registration Form
Written Test for the Multiple Position(s)- Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Node of the Works & Services Department, Government of Sindh
Advertisement
Registration Form
Admission Procedure
Admission Procedure
Online Application
Applications are accepted through IBA Online Admissions System. The link to IBA Online Admissions System is available on IBA's website (www.iba.edu.pk).
To apply online, applicants need to fill out an online Admission Application Form, print a bank challan and take it to the designated bank branches to deposit the admission processing fee. 
 Admit card will be received through registered email 
 on the prescribed dates as per the procedure.
Issuance of Admit Cards
After paying fee, Admit card will be generated between mentioned dates in the form and sent on candidate's email address and candidates will be also notified via SMS. Candidates can also download/ print admit cards by logging in the application using existing Login ID and Password. You do not need to send paid fee vouchers as we are tracking payment through bank transactions.
Aptitude Test
The Aptitude Test is conducted on simultaneously in Karachi and other cities on specified date announced in media / on our website. Candidate may choose the test location during applying online. The Admit Cards issued to the applicants indicate the test center, date, and reporting time. Please make sure to read all instructions given on the back of the Admit Card carefully. The applicants should bring their Admit Cards along with a photo ID to be able to appear for the Aptitude Test. Candidates who pass the Aptitude Test qualify for the group discussion followed by an interview.
Interview List
The names of candidates who qualify the Aptitude Test and are eligible to participate in group discussion, interview activities will be displayed on our website. These candidates are to report to the venue at the designated date and time for the said activity.
Documents Required
For Undergraduate Students Only:
- Matriculation / O' Level Certificate
- Intermediate / A' Level Certificate
- IBCC Equivalence in case of O/A Level
- National Identity Card / Birth Certificate
For Graduate Students Only:
- Matriculation / O' Level Certificates
- Intermediate / A' Level Certificates
- Graduation Degree
- Graduation Marks Sheet
- National Identity Card / Birth Certificate
- Work Experience Letters (where applicable)
- HEC Equivalence in case of foreign degree.
Group Discussion
The selected candidates are divided into groups. These groups are given a topic to debate and discuss amongst themselves. During this process, communication skills, interpersonal skills, confidence and leadership potential are assessed.
Interview
Interviews are conducted for evaluating the level of maturity, academic aptitude, motivation, interpersonal skills and career focus of the applicants.
List of Successful Candidates
The names of candidates who qualify the admission requirements will be notified through a list on our website (www.iba.edu.pk). These candidates will get their Admission Letter, Fee Challan and other documents through an email sent by the admission office. As a prerequisite for issue of Admission Letter and other documentation, all successful candidates are required to deposit the transcripts bearing proof of their having met the minimum academic eligibility requirements for the respective programs.
Enrolment
Only those Candidates should deposit their fee in the prescribed banks who have met the academic eligibility criteria for the program concerned (other candidates should not deposit any fee as they will face a lengthy process of getting the refund).These candidates must, however, submit the following documents in original, along with copies attested by a gazette officer to complete the enrolment process:
- Matriculation / 'O' Levels certificate
- HSC / 'A' Levels certificate with transcript / marks sheet
- Bachelors degree with transcript / marks sheet
- Masters degree with transcript / marks sheet
- Work experience certificate*
- Migration certificate of the university / board concerned, except in the case of Karachi University / Karachi Board
- Equivalence certificate in case of holders of degrees / certificates issued by non-Pakistani universities / boards
- Original copy of Fee Challan deposit slip *where applicable
Disclaimer:
Any candidate who provides false or incorrect information about work experience, grades, financial status of the family, (or any other required material), or submits any fake supporting documents will be permanently debarred from applying to IBA